# AP_Project
**Ian Dierckx <br> 20141756**

A Space Invaders like game created for the Advanced Programming course at the University of Antwerp.

[Documentation](https://iandierckx.github.io/AP_Project/html/index.html)

## Rules of the game
The point of the game is to shoot down all of the enemy aliens. To accomplish this the player will have to use the energy cannons presented in the level. Every cannon starts with 8 bullets. Once the cannon hasn't been used for some time it will automatically reload back to it's 8 bullets. During the game the enemies will shoot bullets which the player will have to avoid. If an enemy bullet hits the player they will lose a life. The player will start each level with a set amount of lives (standard is 3).

The player will lose the game if they've lost all their lives or the aliens have reached the cannons. To clear a level the player has to shoot down all enemies. Once all level have been cleared the player will have won the game.

## Controls

| Key        | Action                               |
|------------|--------------------------------------|
|Left arrow  | Move player left                     |
|Right arrow | Move player right                    |
|Space bar   | Shoot cannon                         |
|Enter       | Continue to next level or close game |

## Source files structure

The projects source files are diveded into subfolders.

1. GameLogic: Contains, as the name suggests, the internal logic used in the game and is further diveded in:
    + Include
      + GameLogic: Contains all the header files for the internal game logic.
      + lib: Contains external libraries used (nlohmann's json parser).
    + src: Contains all cpp files of the internal game logic.

2. Levels: Contains all the game's levels in the form of json files.

3. SFML: Contains all the files related to the SFML part of the project, which handles the graphical part of the game:
    + Include: Contains all header files for the SFML part of the game.
    + res: Contains all resources used by the game:
      + fonts: Contains the fonts used in the project.
      + sprites: Contains the sprites used in the project.
    + src : Contains all the cpp files for the SFML part of the project.

4. cmake/Modules: Contains FindSFML.cmake, a file used to search the system for SFML.

5. docs: Contains the doxygen generated documentation which can be found [here](https://iandierckx.github.io/AP_Project/html/index.html).

6. Other files:
    + CMakeLists.txt: The CMake file used for this project.
    + Controller.h and Controller.cpp: Handles the input received by the view (SFML) and tells the model (GameLogic) what to do with it.
    + Doxyfile: The doxygen config file used to generate the documentation found [here](https://iandierckx.github.io/AP_Project/html/index.html).
    + README.md: The file you're currently reading.
    + buildScript.sh: Shell script which can be used to automatically build and compile the project.
    + main.cpp: The project's main file where it's main function is located and where it's code starts.
    
## Documentation

The documentation for the project is generated by doxygen and can be found [here](https://iandierckx.github.io/AP_Project/html/index.html). The files generated by doxygen are located in the docs folder.
